## Git Commit Guidelines

The format of commit messages are very important.  It helps to produce **more
readable messages** that are easy to follow when looking through the **project history**.  But also,
these commit messages will be used to **generate the change log** at somepoint in the near future.

The commit message formatting can be added using a typical git workflow or through the use of a CLI
wizard ([Commitizen](https://github.com/commitizen/cz-cli)). To use the wizard, run `yarn run commit`
in your terminal after staging your changes in git.

### Commit Message Format
Each commit message consists of a **header**, a **body** and a **footer**.  The header has a special
format that includes a **type** and a **subject**:

```
<type>: <subject>
<BLANK LINE>
<body>
<BLANK LINE>
<footer>
```

The **header** is mandatory.  The **body**, although optional, should be descriptive.

Any line of the commit message cannot be longer 100 characters! This allows the message to be easier
to read on GitHub as well as in various git tools.

### Revert
If the commit reverts a previous commit, it should begin with `revert: `, followed by the header
of the reverted commit.
In the body it should say: `This reverts commit <hash>.`, where the hash is the SHA of the commit
being reverted.
A commit with this format is automatically created by the [`git revert`][git-revert] command.

### Type
Must be one of the following:

TYPE | Description
-- | --
**feat**: | A new feature
**fix**: | A bug fix
**docs**: | Documentation only changes
**style**: | Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (white-space, formatting, missing semi-colons, etc)
**refactor**: | A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
**perf**: | A code change that improves performance
**chore**: | Changes to the build process or auxiliary tools and libraries such as documentation generation

### Subject
The subject contains succinct description of the change:
* use the imperative, present tense: "change" not "changed" nor "changes"
* Capitalized, short (50 chars or less) summary
* no dot `.` at the end

### Body
The body should include the motivation for the change and contrast this with previous behavior.

#### Example Commit Message:
```
type: Capitalized, short (50 chars or less) summary.

More detailed explanatory text, if necessary.  Wrap it to about 72
characters or so and **don't** exceed 100 characters!  In some contexts, 
the first line is treated as the subject of an email and the rest of the 
text as the body.  The blank line separating the summary from the body is 
critical (unless you omit the body entirely).

Write your commit message in the imperative, present tense: "Fix bug" and 
not "Fixed bug" or "Fixes bug."  This convention matches up with commit 
messages generated by commands like git merge and git revert.

Seperate paragraphs with blank lines.

- Bullet points are okay
- Never add a dot `.` at the end
- Typically a hyphen or asterisk is used for the bullet, followed by a
  single space
- Use a hanging indent when wrapping lines ( _like the line above_ ) or...
    ...when a bullet point reqiures addtional detail
```

### Footer
The footer should contain any information about **Breaking Changes** and is also the place to
[reference GitHub issues that this commit closes][closing-issues].

**Breaking Changes** should start with `BREAKING CHANGE:` with a space or two newlines.
The rest of the commit message is then the description of the change, justification and migration notes.

```
BREAKING CHANGE: Capitalized, short (50 chars or less) summary.
    
    Before:
    
    After:
    
    Description of why this was deemd nesarcary.
```

[git-revert]: https://git-scm.com/docs/git-revert
[closing-issues]: https://help.github.com/articles/closing-issues-via-commit-messages/
